# Impassable Terrain

<div>

After the players choose a direction of travel, and they are not
following a road, they may discover that the path forward is impassable.
They remain in the same hex and all of that hex\'s effects are
reapplied. Impassable terrain may be predetermined by the judge in order
to make an area or an objective more difficult to reach or it may be
determined randomly. Lawful hexes are exceedingly rare and sometimes
completely surrounded by impassable terrain.

</div>

<div>

### Table 1-1: Impassable Terrain

  Hex                       Hex                            
  --------- ----------- --- ----------------------------- -----
  Neutral   1 on d8         Mountainous                   -d1
  Chaotic   1-2 on d8       Connected border impassable   -d3

</div>

<div>

## Determine the Alignment of the new hex

Base the alignment of the hex either on the requirements of the story or
luck. If, in the bard\'s version of this story, the journey would not
warrant even a mention, then it will be neutrally aligned. If they are
heading to some goal or retrieving a treasure then it will be chaotic or
worse. Any journey of worth will require crossing dangerous ground but
you may deem to let the table below decide.

### Table 1-2: Hex Alignment

Possibly modified by luck or amount of luck burned.

  d20      Hex Alignment
  -------- ---------------
  Fumble   Doom
  1-11     Chaotic
  12-20    Neutral
  Crit     Lawful

</div>

## Determine the Topography

The choice may be limited by the die you choose to roll with. Using a
d6, d8, or d10 will allow for different possible results.

### Table 1-3: Topography

  d10   Landscape
  ----- ----------------------------
  1     Doom Hex or Plains / hills
  2-4   Plains / hills
  5-6   Forest / Jungle
  7     Mountain Range
  8     Desert / Ice
  9     Swamp / Bogs
  10    Lake or Sea

Fill in some nearby hexes with the same content or use impassable
terrain to completely or partially surround goals or show cliffs and
canyons. Large rivers are also drawn between hexes and present some
difficulty for the party to cross. Possibly the cost is days as the
party builds a raft or looks for some other means to cross. You can fill
in more hexes if it will be a long and arduous journey but a hex is not
a set distance.\
River names: *Course, Estuary, Kill, River, Run, Stream, Tributary,
Vein*.

</div>

<div>

## Time

Mark off the number of days it takes to traverse the hex on your
calendar. Plains and hills 1 day, forest 2 days, swamp and desert 3
days, jungle 5 days, mountains 8 days. Chaos and Doom hexes May take
half a day or a weeks to cross. Notes these on your map key.

</div>

<div>

## Provisions and Supplies

You may wish to keep track of supplies. This can work with an inventory
slot system of managing encumbrance. One option is to have a single
supply unit for both and food and water. The party is assumed to be
replenishing supplies as they travel unless they are in hostile
(chaotic) terrain. If in hostile terrain they should cross off one
supply unit per day. Anyone out of supplies no longer heals.
Additionally, if undergoing thirst, exposure, or sickness each member
can cross off one supply unit to add 5 to their thirst, exposure, or
sickness roll. Similarly, running out of supplies may add to these
rolls.

</div>
:::
:::

::: {#mapscandiv}
![](image/mapscan.svg){#mapscan}
:::

::: section
# Chaos

<div>

Chaotic terrain can have a variety of effects. These effects may be
ameliorated or enhanced by many factors. The characters may carry extra
water or have no water at all. Some of the party may have outdoor or
astrological skills or even, a compass. You can add modifiers to the
roll or move up or down the dice chain. If the party rolls poorly, they
may be able to use magic or ingenuity to limit or negate some effects.
Simply knowing *Food of the Gods* could add +5 to the exposure table,
for instance.

</div>

<div>

### Table 2-1: Chaotic Hex Effect

  d20      Chaotic Hex Effect
  -------- ----------------------------------------------------
  Fumble   reroll d8+1 and add beasts
  2-3      Sickness
  4-5      Thirst or Exposure
  6-7      Lost
  8-10     Storm
  11-19    Beasts
  Crit     Reroll but add a helpful NPC or traveling merchant

### Beasts

Beasts are the most common trial of a chaos hex. Create your beasts
using the *Beastomatic* below. Make a note of the beast as that same
beast will always inhabit this hex. Beasts usually attack all who pass
through this hex.

### Table 2-2: Sickness

*You feel cold but begin to sweat. Your stomach gurgles. Did you eat
something bad?*

  d20      Sickness
  -------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Fumble   **Pestilence** Lose 1 week and Luck check; Pass: 1d3hp and 1d5 Stamina (cannot go below 1 of either), Fail: Reduced to 1hp and 4 Stamina.
  1-5      **Plague** 3 day and DC 15 Fort save or 1d3hp and 1d5 Stamina (cannot go below 1 of either).
  6-10     **Sickness** 2 days and As above but DC 10
  11-15    **Fevers** 1 day and As above but DC 5
  16+      **The Runs** 1 day
  Crit     Develop an immunity to this area\'s disease.

### Table 2-3: Thirst

*First begins the terrible thirst then the aching head. The sun beats
down as you squeeze out the last drops of water. You tongue swells and
your mind becomes haunted.*

  d20      Thirst
  -------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Fumble   As above and unluckiest succumbs. Permanently lose 1 Stamina and bedridden for 1 week.
  -5       1d4hp+1, 2 Stamina
  6-10     1d4hp, 1 Stamina
  11-15    1d3hp
  16+      Desperate, you find a watering hole
  Crit     Healing oasis - Food, water, and all healed

### Table 2-4: Exposure

*You are shivering. Your speech slurs. Clumsy, drowsy you must find
shelter.*

  d20      Exposure
  -------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Fumble   3 Stamina and 3 days + 1d4 Damage, unluckiest gets frostbite, permanently lose 1 Agility.
  1-5      3 Stamina & 3 days
  6-10     2 Stamina & 2 days
  11-15    1 Stamina & 1 day
  16+      Find shelter easily
  Crit     Survivalist +2XP, Each player acquires warm furs (+3 on this table if they keep and wear)

### Table 2-5: Lost

*The area begins to look familiar. You come upon a campsite and realize
it was your own.*

  d20      Lost
  -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Fumble   Lose 1 week, roll on exposure or thirst, encounter beasts.
  1-5      Lose 3 days suffer 1d3hp exposure and luck check or encounter a beast.
  6-10     Lose 2 days and luck check or encounter a beast.
  11-15    Lose 1 day.
  16+      Find your way again and lose no time.
  Crit     Catch site of and move towards your goal. Gain 1 day.

<div>

### Table 2-6: Storm

*The sky grows black and the wind wails.*

  d20      Storm
  -------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Fumble   Maelstrom - Lose 4 days, 1d5hp, 2 Stamina
  1-5      Hurricane - Lose 2 day, Each PC makes a Luck check or 1d5hp and 1 Stamina.
  6-10     Torrent - Lose 1 day, Luck check or 1d3hp.
  11-15    Storm - Lose 1 day
  16+      You are very wet
  Crit     Searching for shelter, you find food or helpful NPCs.

### Table 2-7: Doom Hex effects

The doom hex represents a particularly dire locale. These areas usually
are a lone hex but on occasion may surround an important location. Such
a hex could have a particularly vile beast or a dangerous combination of
flora and fauna. They could also be combined with the effects below.

  d5   Name           Doom Hex Effect
  ---- -------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1    Lost time      The days begin to blur. Lose (d10) 1: d3 years, 2-4: d12 months, 5-8: d4 weeks, 9-10: d7 days
  2    Never ending   The goal moves. Leaving the hex reenters the hex from the opposite edge. Redoing the hex effects again and again. Reverse course to move forward.
  3    Heavenly       It feels too good. The hex gives joy and energy. Delicious fruits and warm springs abound. You feel stronger. The players gain one random point of attribute for each day they spend here. They lose all upon leaving and gain mutations. 3 points gained (and lost) bestows a minor mutation, 5 points gives a major mutation, and 8 points gives greater mutation. There may be a source of healing several hexes away.
  4    Cursed         You despoil hallowed ground by being here. Curse *DCC RPG* Appendix C. Maybe removed or avoided by a variety of means. Possibly returning an object to the area or killing something.
  5    Wasting        Some force drains you. Drains one Strength, Stamina, or Intelligence per day.

</div>

</div>

::: {style="page-break-before:always"}
::: section
# Names

<div>

### Neutral Hex {#neutral-hex style="margin-top:2pt"}

*Proper Name* + (*Area Name*) Examples: *Klazdoon, The Sands of Dagbara,
Adaakka Desert*

#### Chaotic Hex

*Special Name* + *Area Name*\
Examples: *The Blighted Crags, Crooked Woods*

#### Doom Hex

*Special Name* + *Area Name* + (*Proper Name*)\
Examples: *The Womb of Sadness*, *The Screaming Pits of Uruksoom*

</div>

<div>

<div>

### Table 3-1: Area Name

Choose the correct column for the hex or choose *Other*.

  d20   1\. Plains/Hills   2\. Desert/Ice   3\. Forest   4\. Swamp
  ----- ------------------ ---------------- ------------ -----------
  1     Plains             Basin            Cave         Swamp
  2     Hills              Desert           Cover        Bogs
  3     Fields             Dunes            Forest       Pools
  4     Grasslands         Ocean            Jungle       Mire
  5     Expanse            Sands            Shadow       Morass
  6     Plateau            Wastes           Darkness     Moor
  7     Belt               Salt             Stand        Fen
  8     Highlands          Sea              Thicket      Mud
  9     Border             Blight           Trees        Pits
  10    Claim              Wasteland        Wildwood     Marshland
  11    Domain             Emptiness        Wood         Quagmire
  12    Zone               Lake             Bramble      Bottoms
  13    Flatland           Expanse          Enclosure    Polder
  14    Footprint          Burning          Wildness     Quag
  15    Lands              Desolation       Silvan       Slough
  16    Lowlands           Glittering       Whitewood    Swale
  17    The Open           Rock             Labyrinth    Swampland
  18    Terrain            Wound            Tangle       Holm
  19    Territory          Emptiness        Boscage      Peat Bog
  20    The Wild           Anvil            Morass       Marsh

::: pagebefore
:::

  d30   5\. Mountain   6\. Other
  ----- -------------- ------------
  1     Aerie          Abyss
  2     Bluffs         Altar
  3     Canyon         Womb
  4     Cliffs         Asylum
  5     Crags          Bastion
  6     Crater         Belly
  7     Crown          Crucible
  8     Dome           Dens
  9     Eminence       Dwelling
  10    Fjords         Expanse
  11    Heights        Eyes
  12    Hills          Void
  13    Hump           Remains
  14    Mounds         Forge
  15    Mount          Garden
  16    Mountains      Gorges
  17    Peaks          Hatcheries
  18    Pike           End
  19    Pillars        Corpse
  20    Precipice      Hive
  21    Range          Lands
  22    Ridges         Oasis
  23    Spikes         Pits
  24    Spires         Plains
  25    Teeth          Pools
  26    Towers         Respite
  27    Vault          Rivers
  28    Volcano        Sanctuary
  29    Ascent         Sea
  30    Scar           Spikes

</div>

::: {#propername}
![](image/skull_island.svg){#skull_island
style=" height: 2.0in; width: auto; left: 1.10in; top: -.5in;"}
:::

::: pagebefore
:::

### Table 3-2: Proper Name

Roll for prefix and suffix. Roll again for additional syllables.

<div>

  d100   Prefix   Suffix   d100   Prefix   Suffix   d100   Prefix   Suffix
  ------ -------- -------- ------ -------- -------- ------ -------- ----------
  1      Ada      aka      35     Ioni     giss     68     Ras      pur
  2      Aksha    alu      36     Ir       glam     69     Roon     queb
  3      Awa      alt      37     Isi      glar     70     Sho      quell
  4      ba       ax       38     Jai      gloom    71     Shool    quern
  5      Bab      balt     39     Jod      hex      72     Shuru    rak
  6      Bad      bat      40     Ka       inex     73     Sire     rax
  7      Bala     char     41     Kaza     ish      74     Slo      reen
  8      Bar      churak   42     Kid      istan    75     Slum     rez
  9      Black    dark     43     Klaz     jan      76     Sus      sa
  10     Borah    dook     44     Kon      jekto    77     Tak      shul
  11     Da       aria     45     Kuta     kan      78     Tal      sippa
  12     Dag      bala     46     Kuth     kill     79     Thule    slog
  13     Dil      bane     47     La       kkam     80     Tuk      sloth
  14     Doon     boon     48     Lag      klor     81     Tut      sogoth
  15     Dor      chult    49     Lar      kurnix   82     Tyre     soom
  16     Dun      dar      50     Ma       lan      83     Ug       soth
  17     D'       dax      51     Mara     lar      84     Uli      sty
  18     Ek       doon     52     Mir      lin      85     Ur       sylvania
  19     El       down     53     Mont     loloo    86     Uruk     tear
  20     Erid     dur      54     Nadi     mar      87     Vek      ton
  21     Fal      ech      55     Nag      mare     88     Ver      tooth
  22     Far      eek      56     Nin      mexy     89     Vil      twool
  23     Fe       eel      57     Noog     mire     90     Vin      usix
  24     Fell     eno      58     Og       nadir    91     Walden   vex
  25     Fy       entix    59     Oog      neen     92     Wil      vile
  26     Gar      ereen    60     Ool      nipe     93     Xen      wan
  27     Gir      eria     61     Oor      noop     94     Xi       weird
  28     Glam     fall     62     Ozy      nun      95     Xyl      wood
  29     Glom     fell     63     Pazur    oop      96     Yi       xene
  30     Gun      fex      64     Py       ount     97     Yool     xyl
  31     Hi       foor     65     Quir     ox       98     Zen      zalu
  32     Hun      gal      66     Ra       oz       99     Zeph     zoon
  33     Idle     gar      67     Ral      por      100    Zir      zzarr
  34     Ill      gex                                                

</div>

</div>

### Table 3-3: Special Name

<div>

  d100   Title         d100   Title        d100   Title
  ------ ------------- ------ ------------ ------ -------------
  1      Abhorrent     35     Heretical    68     Unseen
  2      Belching      36     Hidden       69     Unspeakable
  3      Gloaming      37     Horror       70     Wasted
  4      Bent          38     Ice          71     Weeping
  5      Black         39     Iron         72     Whispering
  6      Blasphemous   40     Lava         73     White
  7      Blessed       41     Living       74     Wounded
  8      Blighted      42     Maw          75     Screaming
  9      Blood         43     Metal        76     Great
  10     Bogs          44     Moldy        77     Dire
  11     Burn          45     Mud          78     Fearsome
  12     Cloud         46     Obscene      79     Feeding
  13     Corrupted     47     Pain         80     Filthy
  14     Crooked       48     Poison       81     Sunken
  15     Cruel         49     Red          82     Sordid
  16     Crystal       50     Rot          83     Milky
  17     Croaking      51     Rotting      84     Pustulent
  18     Cursed        52     Mourning     85     Impurpled
  19     Dark          53     Ruin         86     Corpulent
  20     Dead          54     Sadness      87     Salubrious
  21     Deformed      55     Salt         88     Salivating
  22     Doom          56     Shadowed     89     Sinful
  23     Dreaming      57     Shifting     90     Painted
  24     Fear          58     Shroomed     91     Steel
  25     Fire          59     Demonic      92     Bleached
  26     Fiery         60     Shroud       93     Baneful
  27     Floating      61     Smoldering   94     Billowing
  28     Forgetful     62     Sorrow       95     Whistling
  29     Formless      63     Spiked       96     Whispering
  30     Frozen        64     Tangled      97     Slumping
  31     Ghost         65     Unbidden     98     Slouching
  32     Glittering    66     Unborn       99     Polluted
  33     Glowing       67     Unholy       100    Ashen
  34     Gray                                      


